### Reading Elements of Vectors

Now that you know how to create, update, and destroy vectors, knowing how to
read their contents is a good next step. There are two ways to reference a
value stored in a vector. In the examples, we’ve annotated the types of the
values that are returned from these functions for extra clarity.

The code below shows both methods of accessing a value in a vector, either with
indexing syntax or the `get` method.

```rust
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let third: &i32 = &v[2];
    println!("The third element is {}", third);

    match v.get(2) {
        Some(third) => println!("The third element is {}", third),
        None => println!("There is no third element."),
    }
```

#### Using indexing syntax or the get method to access an item in a vector

Note two details here. First, we use the index value of `2` to get the third
element: vectors are indexed by number, starting at zero. Second, the two ways
to get the third element are by using `&` and `[]`, which gives us a reference,
or by using the `get` method with the index passed as an argument, which gives
us an `Option<&T>`.

Rust has two ways to reference an element so you can choose how the program
behaves when you try to use an index value that the vector doesn’t have an
element for. As an example, let’s see what a program will do if it has a vector
that holds five elements and then tries to access an element at index 100, as
shown below.

```rust,should_panic,panics
    let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let does_not_exist = &v[100];
    let does_not_exist = v.get(100);
```

#### Attempting to access the element at index 100 in a vector containing five elements

When we run this code, the first `[]` method will cause the program to panic
because it references a nonexistent element. This method is best used when you
want your program to crash if there’s an attempt to access an element past the
end of the vector.

When the `get` method is passed an index that is outside the vector, it returns
`None` without panicking. You would use this method if accessing an element
beyond the range of the vector happens occasionally under normal circumstances.
Your code will then have logic to handle having either `Some(&element)` or
`None`, as discussed in the [Enums](course://Structs,%20Methods,%20Enums,%20and%20Pattern%20Matching/Enums) lesson. For example, the index could be coming from
a person entering a number. If they accidentally enter a number that’s too
large and the program gets a `None` value, you could tell the user how many
items are in the current vector and give them another chance to enter a valid
value. That would be more user-friendly than crashing the program due to a typo!

