
### The `Option` Enum and Its Advantages Over Null Values

In the previous section, we looked at how the `IpAddr` enum let us use Rust’s
type system to encode more information than just the data into our program.
This section explores a case study of `Option`, which is another enum defined
by the standard library. The `Option` type is used in many places because it
encodes the very common scenario in which a value could be something or it
could be nothing. Expressing this concept in terms of the type system means the
compiler can check whether you’ve handled all the cases you should be handling;
this functionality can prevent bugs that are extremely common in other
programming languages.

Programming language design is often thought of in terms of which features you
include, but the features you exclude are important too. Rust doesn’t have the
null feature that many other languages have. *Null* is a value that means there
is no value there. In languages with null, variables can always be in one of
two states: null or not-null.

In his 2009 presentation “Null References: The Billion Dollar Mistake” Tony
Hoare, the inventor of null, has this to say:

> I call it my billion-dollar mistake. At that time, I was designing the first
> comprehensive type system for references in an object-oriented language. My
> goal was to ensure that all use of references should be absolutely safe, with
> checking performed automatically by the compiler. But I couldn’t resist the
> temptation to put in a null reference, simply because it was so easy to
> implement. This has led to innumerable errors, vulnerabilities, and system
> crashes, which have probably caused a billion dollars of pain and damage in
> the last forty years.

The problem with null values is that if you try to use a null value as a
not-null value, you’ll get an error of some kind. Because this null or not-null
property is pervasive, it’s extremely easy to make this kind of error.

However, the concept that null is trying to express is still a useful one: a
null is a value that is currently invalid or absent for some reason.

The problem isn’t really with the concept but with the particular
implementation. As such, Rust does not have nulls, but it does have an enum
that can encode the concept of a value being present or absent. This enum is
`Option<T>`, and it is [defined by the standard library][option]<!-- ignore -->
as follows:

[option]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html

```rust
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}
```

The `Option<T>` enum is so useful that it’s even included in the prelude; you
don’t need to bring it into scope explicitly. In addition, so are its variants:
you can use `Some` and `None` directly without the `Option::` prefix. The
`Option<T>` enum is still just a regular enum, and `Some(T)` and `None` are
still variants of type `Option<T>`.

The `<T>` syntax is a feature of Rust we haven’t talked about yet. It’s a
generic type parameter, and we’ll cover generics in more detail in the [Generic Types, Traits, and Lifetime](course://Generic%20Types,%20Traits,%20and%20Lifetime) section.
For now, all you need to know is that `<T>` means the `Some` variant of the
`Option` enum can hold one piece of data of any type. Here are some examples of
using `Option` values to hold number types and string types:

```rust
let some_number = Some(5);
let some_string = Some("a string");

let absent_number: Option<i32> = None;
```

If we use `None` rather than `Some`, we need to tell Rust what type of
`Option<T>` we have because the compiler can’t infer the type that the `Some`
variant will hold by looking only at a `None` value.

When we have a `Some` value, we know that a value is present and the value is
held within the `Some`. When we have a `None` value, in some sense, it means
the same thing as null: we don’t have a valid value. So why is having
`Option<T>` any better than having null?

In short, because `Option<T>` and `T` (where `T` can be any type) are different
types, the compiler won’t let us use an `Option<T>` value as if it were
definitely a valid value. For example, this code won’t compile because it’s
trying to add an `i8` to an `Option<i8>`:

```rust,ignore,does_not_compile
let x: i8 = 5;
let y: Option<i8> = Some(5);

let sum = x + y;
```

If we run this code, we get an error message like this:

```console
error[E0277]: cannot add `Option<i8>` to `i8`
 --> src/main.rs:5:17
  |
5 |     let sum = x + y;
  |                 ^ no implementation for `i8 + Option<i8>`
  |
  = help: the trait `Add<Option<i8>>` is not implemented for `i8`
  ```

Intense! In effect, this error message means that Rust doesn’t understand how
to add an `i8` and an `Option<i8>` because they’re different types. When we
have a value of a type like `i8` in Rust, the compiler will ensure that we
always have a valid value. We can proceed confidently without having to check
for null before using that value. Only when we have an `Option<i8>` (or
whatever type of value we’re working with) do we have to worry about possibly
not having a value, and the compiler will make sure we handle that case before
using the value.

In other words, you have to convert an `Option<T>` to a `T` before you can
perform `T` operations with it. Generally, this helps catch one of the most
common issues with null: assuming that something isn’t null when it actually
is.

Not having to worry about incorrectly assuming a not-null value helps you to be
more confident in your code. In order to have a value that can possibly be
null, you must explicitly opt in by making the type of that value `Option<T>`.
Then, when you use that value, you are required to explicitly handle the case
when the value is null. Everywhere that a value has a type that isn’t an
`Option<T>`, you *can* safely assume that the value isn’t null. This was a
deliberate design decision for Rust to limit null’s pervasiveness and increase
the safety of Rust code.

So, how do you get the `T` value out of a `Some` variant when you have a value
of type `Option<T>` so you can use that value? The `Option<T>` enum has a large
number of methods that are useful in a variety of situations; you can check
them out in [its documentation][docs]<!-- ignore -->. Becoming familiar with
the methods on `Option<T>` will be extremely useful in your journey with Rust.

[docs]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html

In general, in order to use an `Option<T>` value, you want to have code that
will handle each variant. You want some code that will run only when you have a
`Some(T)` value, and this code is allowed to use the inner `T`. You want some
other code to run if you have a `None` value, and that code doesn’t have a `T`
value available. The `match` expression is a control flow construct that does
just this when used with enums: it will run different code depending on which
variant of the enum it has, and that code can use the data inside the matching
value.
